I want you to implement an interactive repository initialization CLI for this project.

The goal is to allow a developer who has just cloned the repository to run one command and be guided from a fresh clone all the way to a running development environment.

The CLI should automate the setup steps that are currently documented in the README while still requiring the developer to provide/configure things that cannot safely be automated, such as PostgreSQL credentials and Microsoft Entra credentials.

The CLI should be invoked through an npm script from the repository root.

For example:

npm run setup

Use the project's existing language, package manager conventions, CLI libraries, error handling, and architecture where appropriate.

Before implementing anything, inspect the repository to understand its existing structure and npm scripts.

1. Overall CLI flow
The CLI should guide the developer through these stages:

Check prerequisites and explain what needs to be installed.

Install repository dependencies.

Ask the user if environment variables are configured and explain what the environment variables are.

Set up/migrate and seed the database.

Optionally seed application users through the existing seed:users CLI.

Optionally run the backend tests.

Start the application.

The flow should be interactive.

At every stage, the developer must be given these choices:

Proceed

Skip

Cancel

The only exception is where a step has no meaningful skip behavior. In that case, explain why and only offer the applicable choices.

The meaning should be consistent throughout the CLI:

Proceed
Perform the current step.

Skip
Do not perform the current step and continue to the next step.

Cancel
Immediately terminate the setup CLI without executing any further steps.

If the user cancels, exit cleanly without showing an error or stack trace.

2. CLI startup
When the CLI starts, display a short introduction.

Explain that this command will guide the developer through setting up Nexus from a freshly cloned repository.

For example:

Welcome to the Nexus setup wizard.

This wizard will help you install dependencies, configure your local environment, prepare PostgreSQL, optionally seed users, run tests, and start the application.

You can skip optional steps at any time, or cancel the setup entirely.

Then begin the setup process.

Do not overwhelm the user with the entire README. Explain information at the point where it becomes relevant.

3. Step 1 — Prerequisites
Before attempting to install anything, explain the required prerequisites.

The developer needs:

Node.js v20+

npm

PostgreSQL

A Microsoft organization / Entra tenant if they intend to test authentication.

Explain that PostgreSQL must be installed and running and that the developer needs access to a database they can create/use.

Explain that Microsoft Entra authentication requires an Entra app registration and credentials.

Mention that an API client such as Postman is optional.

Validate prerequisites

Before proceeding with this stage, ask:

Prerequisites need to be installed and PostgreSQL should be available before continuing. How would you like to proceed?

Options:

Proceed

Skip

Cancel

Be careful with Skip: skipping prerequisite validation must not cause the CLI to silently assume everything is available. Later command failures should still be reported normally.

4. Step 2 — Install dependencies
The README currently instructs developers to run:

npm install
npm --prefix backend install
npm --prefix frontend/nexus install

The setup CLI should perform these installation commands automatically.

Use the project's existing root npm scripts if there is already an installation script that encapsulates this behavior.

If there is no appropriate existing script, invoke the required npm commands directly.

Do not reimplement npm installation logic in JavaScript/TypeScript.

The CLI should execute the commands as child processes and stream their output to the terminal so the developer can see installation progress.

The setup CLI should wait for each command to finish.

If any dependency installation command exits with a non-zero status:

Show which command failed.

Show a concise error message.

Exit the setup CLI.

Do not continue to later stages.

Before running the installation, ask:

The next step will install the root, backend, and frontend dependencies. This may take a few minutes. Continue?

Options:

Proceed

Skip

Cancel

If skipped, continue to the environment configuration stage.

5. Step 3 — Environment configuration
The application requires environment configuration.

The backend environment file is:

backend/.env - Environment variables for app
backend/.env.integration - Environment variables for testing

The template is:

backend/.env.example
backend/.env.integration.example

The frontend optionally uses:

frontend/nexus/.env

with:

frontend/nexus/.env.example

The CLI should explain what the developer needs to configure rather than attempting to automatically invent credentials.

Backend environment
Explain that the developer needs to configure PostgreSQL settings, including:

DATABASE_HOST
DATABASE_PORT
DATABASE_NAME
DATABASE_USER
DATABASE_PASSWORD
DATABASE_URL

Then explain that Microsoft Entra requires:

MICROSOFT_ENTRA_TENANT_ID
MICROSOFT_ENTRA_CLIENT_ID
MICROSOFT_ENTRA_CLIENT_SECRET
MICROSOFT_ENTRA_REDIRECT_URI
MICROSOFT_ENTRA_SCOPES
FRONTEND_URL

The redirect URI for local development is:

http://localhost:3000/authentication/microsoft/callback

The default frontend URL is:

http://localhost:5173

The default scopes are:

openid profile email

The CLI should tell the developer that they need an Entra app registration with the redirect URI configured.
For eurisko academy instructors, say that they can check their Week 3 email for identity provider credentials
Developer configuration
The CLI should instruct the developer to open/edit the environment file and fill in their values.

Then wait for the developer.

Ask:

Have you finished configuring the required environment variables?

Options:

Done

Cancel

Do not print secret values to the terminal.

If configuration is required for a later database operation and it is skipped, allow the later operation to fail naturally with a clear error rather than hiding the problem.

6. Step 4 — Database setup
The README specifies:

npm run db:setup

This command runs:

Prisma migration.

Prisma seed.

The setup CLI should use this existing root npm script rather than duplicating Prisma commands.

Before executing it, explain:

This step will apply the Prisma migrations and seed the database with the initial identity provider, departments, and sample data.

It does not wipe existing tickets.

Then ask:

Proceed

Skip

Cancel

If Proceed:

npm run db:setup

Run it as a child process and stream the output.

If the command fails:

Display a meaningful error.

Include the failed command.

Exit immediately.

Do not continue to user seeding, tests, or application startup.

Do not attempt to silently retry destructive database operations.

7. Step 5 — Optional user seeding
After successful database setup, ask whether the developer wants to seed additional users.
Explain that upon login, user accounts are automatically created but they're registered as employees and if you need to add an admin or an agent, you can add them or modify users in this steps
Explain that the repository contains an existing interactive user-seeding CLI:

npm run seed:users

This CLI allows developers to:

Add a new user.

Modify an existing user.

Configure roles.

Configure departments.

Ask:

Would you like to add or modify application users now?

Options:

Proceed

Skip

Cancel

If Skip:

Continue to the testing stage.

If Cancel:

Exit the setup CLI.

If Proceed:

Execute:

npm run seed:users

as a child process.

IMPORTANT:

The setup CLI must wait for the seed:users process to finish.

The setup CLI must NOT consider the user-seeding step complete until the child process exits.

When the developer chooses Exit inside the seed:users CLI:

The seed:users process should terminate normally.

Control should return to the original setup CLI.

The setup CLI should continue to the next stage.

In other words:

npm run setup
    |
    +-- npm run seed:users
            |
            +-- developer manages users
            |
            +-- developer chooses Exit
    |
    +-- setup CLI resumes
    |
    +-- continue to tests

Do not treat the Exit option inside seed:users as cancellation of the entire setup wizard.

If npm run seed:users exits with a non-zero exit code, treat it as an error and terminate the setup CLI.

8. Step 6 — Run tests
After database/user setup, ask whether the developer wants to run the backend tests.

Explain:

The backend test suite requires PostgreSQL and a migrated database. Running it now verifies that the environment is working before starting the application.

Ask:

Proceed

Skip

Cancel

If Proceed, execute:

npm run test

from the appropriate project location according to the existing repository scripts.

Prefer an existing root script if one exists. Otherwise execute the backend test command using the repository's established conventions.

Stream test output to the terminal.

If tests fail:

Clearly state that the tests failed.

Show the command that failed.

Exit the setup CLI.

Do not automatically start the application.

Do not hide test output or replace it with a generic "something went wrong" message.

If skipped, continue to application startup.

9. Step 7 — Start the application
This is the final stage.

Ask:

The repository is configured. Would you like to start the Nexus application now?

Options:

Proceed

Skip

Cancel

If Skip:

Display a concise completion message:

Setup completed.

You can start Nexus later with:

npm run start

Then exit.

If Cancel:

Exit cleanly.

If Proceed:

Run:

npm run start

from the repository root.

IMPORTANT:

Unlike the previous commands, this is a long-running process.

The setup CLI should hand over/attach to the application's stdout and stderr so the developer sees the backend and frontend output normally.

Do not wait for the application to terminate before considering the startup successful.

Once the application starts successfully, display or preserve the normal application output.

The developer should be able to stop the application using:

Ctrl+C

The setup CLI should forward/interoperate correctly with SIGINT so Ctrl+C terminates the running application cleanly.

10. Stage state machine
Implement the setup flow as an explicit sequence of stages.

Conceptually:

START
  |
  v
Prerequisites
  |
  v
Install dependencies
  |
  v
Configure environment
  |
  v
Database setup
  |
  v
Optional user seeding
  |
  v
Optional tests
  |
  v
Start application
  |
  v
DONE

Each stage should have a consistent:

Proceed
Skip
Cancel

decision.

Proceed
Run the stage.

If successful, move to the next stage.

Skip
Do not run the stage.

Move to the next stage.

Cancel
Stop the setup process immediately.

Error
If any command that was actually executed fails:

Current stage
    ↓
Display error
    ↓
Exit

Do NOT automatically skip failed stages.

Do NOT continue after errors.

Do NOT automatically retry unless there is an existing project convention specifically designed for retries.

11. Command execution
Implement a reusable helper for executing shell commands.

The helper should:

Spawn the process safely.

Pass through stdout/stderr.

Resolve only on successful exit.

Reject on non-zero exit.

Handle process spawning errors.

Handle SIGINT correctly.

Preserve useful exit codes where appropriate.

Avoid using unsafe shell string concatenation when arguments can be passed directly.

The commands should work on macOS/Linux and Windows where reasonably possible.

Be mindful that npm commands differ slightly between Unix and Windows. Prefer invoking npm through the appropriate executable/environment strategy rather than assuming a Unix-only npm binary path.

Do not use shell-specific commands such as:

rm
cp

inside the Node CLI unless the project already explicitly requires a Unix-only environment.

For file operations such as copying .env.example to .env, use Node's filesystem APIs so the CLI remains cross-platform.

12. Environment handling
Do not load .env values into logs.

When checking environment variables, distinguish between:

Variable exists and has a value.

Variable is missing.

Variable exists but is empty.

Never print the actual secret.

For example:

GOOD:

✓ DATABASE_URL is configured
✓ MICROSOFT_ENTRA_CLIENT_ID is configured
✗ MICROSOFT_ENTRA_CLIENT_SECRET is missing

BAD:

DATABASE_PASSWORD=super-secret-password
MICROSOFT_ENTRA_CLIENT_SECRET=abc123...

13. Existing project scripts
Before implementing the CLI, inspect package.json files throughout the repository.

Reuse existing scripts whenever possible.

The README currently indicates these commands:

npm install
npm --prefix backend install
npm --prefix frontend/nexus install

npm run db:setup

npm run seed:users

npm run test

npm run start

Do not create duplicate functionality if an existing npm script already performs the required operation.

If necessary, add a new root script such as:

{
  "scripts": {
    "setup": "..."
  }
}

Use an appropriate script name based on the project's existing naming conventions.

14. CLI UX
The CLI should feel like a professional developer setup wizard.

Use clear section headers, for example:

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
 Nexus Setup
 Step 3 of 7 — Database Setup
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Keep messages concise but meaningful.

Use success indicators where appropriate:

✓ Dependencies installed
✓ Environment configured
✓ Database initialized

Use warnings for skipped steps:

⚠ Database setup skipped

Use clear errors:

✗ Database setup failed

Avoid excessive decoration.

Every question should explain what is about to happen.

For example, don't simply ask:

Continue?

Prefer:

The next step will run Prisma migrations and seed the database.
Would you like to continue?

15. Safety
This CLI will execute commands and modify a developer's local database, so make potentially impactful operations explicit.

Never silently:

Delete the database.

Drop tables.

Reset Prisma.

Delete tickets.

Overwrite .env.

Replace existing credentials.

The database setup should use the existing:

npm run db:setup

behavior exactly as documented.

Do not introduce destructive reset commands.

Before creating backend/.env from .env.example, make sure you do not overwrite an existing file.

16. Handling existing setup
The CLI should be safe to run again.

For example, a developer may run:

npm run setup

after having already configured part of the repository.

The CLI should detect existing state where practical.

Examples:

Dependencies already installed → don't unnecessarily recreate/remove them.

backend/.env already exists → don't overwrite it.

Database already migrated → allow the existing db:setup command to handle its normal idempotent behavior.

Users already seeded → allow the existing seed/user CLI to handle its normal behavior.

Do not implement a second database migration system inside this CLI.

17. Ctrl+C handling
Handle Ctrl+C gracefully at every stage.

If the user presses Ctrl+C while answering a prompt:

Terminate the setup CLI cleanly.

If Ctrl+C is pressed while a child process is running:

Forward the signal appropriately.

Do not leave orphaned child processes running.

Do not start the next stage.

If the application is running through:

npm run start

Ctrl+C should terminate the running application as expected.

18. Completion
If the developer skips the final application startup step, show:

Nexus setup completed.

Start the application with:

npm run start

Backend:  http://localhost:3000
Frontend: http://localhost:5173

If the application is started successfully, do not terminate it just to display a completion message. Let the normal application process continue running.

19. Testing the setup CLI
If the repository has a testing setup, add tests for the setup logic where practical.

At minimum, structure the implementation so that the following logic can be tested independently of actual child processes:

Proceed decision.

Skip decision.

Cancel decision.

Error termination.

Stage ordering.

Environment-file detection.

Missing prerequisite detection.

Command failure handling.

Do not make the tests require an actual Microsoft Entra account.

Do not make tests depend on a developer's real credentials.

20. Final implementation requirements
Before considering the implementation complete, verify:

A freshly cloned repository can invoke the setup CLI through npm.

The CLI explains prerequisites.

The CLI can install all required dependencies.

The CLI can create backend/.env from .env.example without overwriting an existing file.

The CLI explains PostgreSQL and Microsoft Entra requirements.

The developer can configure environment variables interactively.

The CLI runs npm run db:setup.

The CLI optionally runs npm run seed:users.

The setup CLI resumes after seed:users exits normally.

The CLI optionally runs npm run test.

The CLI starts the application using npm run start.

Every stage supports Proceed / Skip / Cancel where appropriate.

Any executed command failure terminates the setup process.

Ctrl+C is handled cleanly.

Secrets are never printed.

No destructive database commands are introduced.

The implementation is cross-platform where reasonably possible.

Existing project conventions are followed.

Existing npm scripts are reused rather than duplicated.

The implementation is readable and modular.